Loki
Loki is arrested by the Time Variance
Authority (also known as the TVA)
when he creates a new timeline after escaping from
the Battle of New York with the Tesseract in 2012,
during the events of Avengers: Endgame. The TVA
resets the timeline, and this "variant" Loki
stands trial in front of Judge Ravonna Renslayer
for crimes against the "Sacred Timeline".
Loki blames the situation on the Avengers, who had
traveled back in time to 2012, but Renslayer says
their actions were meant to happen unlike Loki's
escape. Agent Mobius M. Mobius takes Loki to
the Time Theater to review his past misdeeds and
question his history of hurting people. He reveals
that Loki, in his intended future, inadvertently
causes the death of his adoptive mother Frigga.
Loki attempts to escape, but gives up after
realizing that the TVA's power exceeds that
of the Infinity Stones. He returns to the
Time Theater and watches more future events,
including his own death at the hands of Thanos.
He then agrees to help Mobius hunt another Loki
variant who has killed several TVA agents
and stolen their timeline-resetting charges.
Loki joins a TVA mission to the site of an attack
by "The Variant" in 1985 Oshkosh, Wisconsin,
where he stalls and attempts to bargain his way
into meeting the Time-Keepers, who created the TVA
and the Sacred Timeline. Renslayer objects to
Loki's further involvement, but Mobius convinces
her to give him another chance. Loki researches
TVA files and theorizes that the Variant is hiding
near apocalyptic events where their actions
do not affect the timeline. Loki and Mobius
confirm this possibility by visiting Pompeii
in 79 AD, before deducing that the Variant is
hiding during a hurricane in 2050 Alabama. There,
they are ambushed by the Variant, who possesses
the bodies of several locals and TVA agent Hunter
B-15. The Variant reveals herself to be a female
version of Loki and rejects his offer to overthrow
the Time-Keepers together. She sends the stolen
reset charges to various points along the Sacred
Timeline, which activate and create numerous
branched timelines that throw the TVA into
disarray. She teleports away and Loki follows her.
The Variant arrives at the TVA and attempts to
find the Time-Keepers, followed by Loki, who uses
a TemPad to teleport them both away and escape
from Renslayer. They arrive at 2077 Lamentis-1,
a moon that is soon to be crushed by a planet, and
the TemPad runs out of power. Loki magically hides
it, and the Variant, who goes by the alias Sylvie,
agrees to work with him to charge it. They sneak
aboard a train bound for the ark, an evacuation
spaceship, which they believe can recharge the
TemPad. Loki gets drunk and starts a ruckus,
leading to a fight with guards who eventually
throw him off the train. Sylvie follows him, only
to find the TemPad broken, and the duo decide to
finish the journey on foot and commandeer the ark
so they can use it to escape. Sylvie reveals that
the TVA's workers are all variants and were not
created by the Time-Keepers as Mobius claimed.
Loki and Sylvie fight their way through guards
and a crowd of people attempting to board the ark.
Before they get there, meteors from
the oncoming planet destroy the ark.
On Lamentis-1, Sylvie tells Loki she escaped the
TVA's detention as a child. Loki and Sylvie form
a romantic bond, creating a unique branched
timeline that draws the attention of the TVA
and allows for their rescue before Lamentis is
destroyed. They are both arrested, and Mobius
leaves Loki in a time loop from his past with
Sif. Mobius and Hunter B-15 realize they are
variants after interrogating Loki and Sylvie.
Mobius subsequently frees Loki from the loop,
but Renslayer confronts them and orders Mobius to
be "pruned". Renslayer takes Loki and Sylvie to
the Time-Keepers before Hunter B-15 intervenes
and frees them of their time twisting collars.
Loki and Sylvie kill the Time-Keepers' guards
and Sylvie knocks Renslayer unconscious.
Sylvie then beheads one of the Time-Keepers,
revealing them to be androids. Loki prepares
to tell Sylvie something, but Renslayer
regains consciousness and prunes him.
Angered, Sylvie overpowers her and demands the
truth about the TVA. In a mid-credits scene, Loki
awakens in an unknown realm, surrounded by several
other Loki variants who invite him to join them.
Sylvie learns from Renslayer that
Loki was teleported to the Void,
a dimension at the end of Time where everything
the TVA prunes is dumped into. Meanwhile, Loki
learns from his other variants that a cloud-like
creature named Alioth guards the Void and prevents
anyone from escaping. In an attempt to reach Loki,
Sylvie prunes herself, and narrowly escapes Alioth
with Mobius' help. One of the Loki variants attempts to
betray the other Lokis for President Loki, causing
a fight to ensue, forcing Loki and his variant
allies to escape. After reuniting with Loki,
Sylvie proposes a plan to approach Alioth and
enchant it, in hopes that it will lead them to
the real mastermind behind the TVA's creation. As
the Lokis head toward Alioth, Mobius uses a TemPad
Sylvie stole from Renslayer to return to
the TVA. Kid Loki and Alligator Loki escape
while Classic Loki creates a large illusion
of Asgard to distract Alioth and sacrifices
himself in the process. This allows Loki and
Sylvie to successfully enchant the creature
and move past the Void. In the distance, we see a citadel, and the pair walks towards it.
Renslayer leaves on a mission to find "free
will" after Miss Minutes gives her information
from the TVA's creator, "He Who Remains". B-15
proves to TVA troopers that they are variants
by showing them a Renslayer variant who is a
school vice-principal. In the Citadel at the End
of Time, He Who Remains tells Loki and Sylvie that
he ended a multiversal war between his variants by
using Alioth to destroy alternate timelines, and
created the TVA to maintain this peace. As he has
grown weary, he offers them a choice: kill him
and risk another multiversal war, or replace him
in overseeing the TVA and a singular timeline.
Sylvie wants to kill him but Loki pleads with her
to stop. They kiss, but Sylvie sends Loki back
to TVA headquarters. She kills He Who Remains,
unleashing a multiverse with alternate timelines
that the TVA cannot prune. At TVA headquarters,
Loki warns Mobius and B-15 about variants
of He Who Remains, but they do not recognize
Loki and he sees that a statue of one of these
variants has replaced those of the Time-Keepers.